Previous Interviews:
====================

Kubernetes pod is not distinct always, What are its statuses?
How do you check Kubernetes logs?
Did you have Kubernetes architecture knowledge?
which operations take place after the pod creation?
What is the Blue-Green deployment strategy?
For learning Kubernetes what is your approach
Do you have any experience with Kubernetes?
Replica set diff replica control
If I have a 6 GB container and have installed one application which is 5GB & 
I have to install another application within the same container how will you manage this scenario?
What exposure do you have in Kubernetes?
What is HPA in Kubernetes?
How do you troubleshoot if the application does not support the auto-scaling?
What do we do with namespaces in Kubernetes?

Broadcom
========
L1 - Round:
----------
How proficient are you in Kubernetes?
Which strategy do you use to upgrade Kubernetes clusters?
What is the purpose of the rollback strategy?
What is a one-node-at-a-time update called (in-place)?
What is blue-green deployment?
Can you write a sample manifest file for a service?
What is meant by Deployment kind and Pod kind?
What are the types of scaling in Kubernetes? What is the difference?

L2 -Round:
-------
What type of experience do you have with Kubernetes?
How do you check the logs of a pod?
What steps do you take to upgrade Kubernetes clusters?
What are Readiness probes and Liveness probes?
What are Helm charts, and what components do you specify for application deployment through Helm?
What YAML files are needed to deploy an application on an EKS cluster?
How would you configure Kubernetes nodes in Jenkins?
How do you monitor Kubernetes pods' health status, and which monitoring tool do you use?
If you are getting Kubernetes pod alerts that a pod is continuously going unhealthy, how would you ensure its health without application downtime?
Is it possible to place application pods on the control plane? What is the best practice?
How would you provide access to a resource for a particular namespace in a Kubernetes cluster to access secrets?

Answers:
=======
Round - 1:
----------
1) How proficient are you in Kubernetes?
I am proficient in Kubernetes and have hands-on experience in deploying and managing clusters, writing YAML manifests, configuring services, handling upgrades, and implementing CI/CD pipelines for Kubernetes-based applications.

2) Which strategy do you use to upgrade Kubernetes clusters?
I use a rolling update or blue-green deployment strategy, depending on the scenario. In managed services like EKS or AKS, I follow the cloud provider’s best practices for upgrading clusters.

3) What is the purpose of the rollback strategy?
The rollback strategy ensures that in case of deployment failures, you can revert to a previously stable state with minimal downtime.

4) What is a one-node-at-a-time update called (in-place)?
This is called a rolling update, where nodes are updated one at a time to minimize disruptions.

5) What is blue-green deployment?
Blue-green deployment is a release management strategy where two environments (Blue and Green) are maintained. The Blue environment runs the current version, while the Green environment runs the new version. After validation, traffic is switched to Green.

6) Can you write a sample manifest file for a service?
Service.yml

apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: my-service
  labels:
    app: my-app
spec:
  selector:
    app: my-app
  ports:
    - protocol: TCP
      port: 80          # Service port
      targetPort: 8080  # Pod container port
  type: ClusterIP       # Type of Service (ClusterIP, NodePort, LoadBalancer, etc.)

7) What is meant by Deployment kind and Pod kind?
Deployment kind defines the configuration for maintaining a desired number of Pods, enabling rolling updates, scaling, and versioning.
Pod kind is the smallest deployable unit in Kubernetes that encapsulates one or more containers.

8)What are the types of scaling in Kubernetes? What is the difference?
Horizontal scaling adds more Pods to distribute the workload (e.g., increasing replicas).
Vertical scaling increases the resources (CPU/memory) of existing Pods.

Round - 2:
---------

What type of experience do you have with Kubernetes?

Answer: I have experience managing Kubernetes clusters using EKS and self-managed Kubernetes. This includes setting up deployments, scaling pods, configuring services, and implementing Helm charts for application packaging. I also have experience with monitoring Kubernetes using tools like Prometheus and Grafana.
How do you check the logs of the pod?

Answer: To check the logs of a pod, I use the kubectl logs command. For example:
bash
Copy code
kubectl logs <pod-name>
For multi-container pods, specify the container name:
bash
Copy code
kubectl logs <pod-name> -c <container-name>
What steps do you take to upgrade Kubernetes clusters?

Answer:
Backup the existing cluster using etcdctl or a snapshot tool.
Review the upgrade documentation for breaking changes.
Upgrade the control plane components (API server, controller manager, etc.).
Upgrade the kubelet and kube-proxy on worker nodes.
Perform testing to validate the upgrade.
What are Readiness probes and Liveness probes?

Answer:
Liveness Probe: Checks if the application is running. If the probe fails, Kubernetes restarts the container.
Readiness Probe: Checks if the application is ready to handle requests. If the probe fails, Kubernetes removes the pod from the service endpoint.
What are Helm charts, and what components do you specify for application deployment through Helm?

Answer: Helm charts are templates for Kubernetes resources that simplify application deployment. A typical Helm chart includes:
Deployment
Service
ConfigMap
Secrets
Values.yaml (custom configurations)
Chart.yaml (metadata)
What YAML files are needed to deploy an application on an EKS cluster?

Answer:
Deployment YAML
Service YAML (ClusterIP, NodePort, or LoadBalancer)
ConfigMap/Secrets YAML
Ingress YAML for routing traffic
PersistentVolume and PersistentVolumeClaim YAML (if storage is needed)
If you are getting Kubernetes pod alerts that a pod is continuously going unhealthy, how would you ensure its health without application downtime?

Answer:
Check pod logs and events for errors using kubectl logs and kubectl describe pod.
Inspect readiness and liveness probes.
Update configurations or deploy a hotfix if needed.
Use rolling updates to avoid downtime.
How would you configure Kubernetes nodes in Jenkins?

Answer: I would use the Kubernetes Jenkins plugin to configure Kubernetes as a cloud provider. This involves:
Adding Kubernetes credentials in Jenkins.
Configuring a Kubernetes cloud with the cluster API server details.
Defining pod templates for job execution.
How do you monitor Kubernetes pods' health status, and which monitoring tool do you use?

Answer: Tools like Prometheus and Grafana are ideal for monitoring pod health. Metrics such as CPU, memory, and custom application metrics can be visualized on Grafana dashboards.
Is it possible to place application pods on the control plane? What is the best practice?

Answer: It's not recommended to place application pods on the control plane as it can compromise stability and performance. The best practice is to use taints and tolerations to restrict workloads to worker nodes.
How would you provide access to a resource for a particular namespace in a Kubernetes cluster to access secrets?

Answer: Use Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) to create roles and role bindings specific to the namespace:
yaml
Copy code
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: Role
metadata:
  namespace: <namespace>
